Hi. So, I've recently made this Princess
Monoke animation in Blender. And in this
video, I'm going to show you my shading
process as well as how to make the line
art. So, first after importing a
character to Blender. You can go here in
the render settings and make sure to set
the color management to standard. This
will enable us to have full control over
the visuals and it's definitely a much
better option for toune style renders
than filmic for example, which works
best for realism. So we can now go to
the shading tab and switch to render
view from up here. Select an object and
add a new material. You can delete the
principal BSDF and add a diffuse BSDF
instead. Then a shader to
RGB and the color
ramp. Connect all the nodes just like
this.
[Music]
And to get a 2D look, make sure to set
the color ramp to
constant. As you can see, we now have
two colors. You can adjust them by
simply using the color picker or just
type the hex code
[Music]
below. And that's basically all for the
shading. It's super simple to make and
can easily turn any 3D object into a 2D
style one. So from here you can simply
replicate the same shading process for
everything else and just change the
colors. Also to make your work a bit
easier, instead of creating a new
material for each object, you can select
two or more objects and press Ctrl L to
link materials between them and then
duplicate the material by pressing this
icon over here so that you can add a new
set of colors to it without changing the
original.
Then if you want your object to have
more than one material, you can just
press the plus button over
[Music]
here. Then go into edit mode and select
all the faces that you want to have a
different
[Music]
color. And with the second material
selected, just click
assign. For the rest of the character, I
follow the exact same steps I showed you
earlier. So there's absolutely no
difference in the
[Music]
shading. Now, the only problem I had
with this character was the hair
shading, which, as you can see, did not
look properly using this method. Often
with 2D style characters like this one,
you don't want the shadows to mix up
with the light parts. As you can notice,
it's happening here. And to fix this,
since my model used multiple curves for
the hair, I decided to keep only one
color and delete the other. And I also
renamed this material to hair light.
Then, as you can see, in my case, the
character is being lit from the right
side. So, I'm only going to add the
shadows on the left. And to do that, I
just duplicated the material and renamed
it to hair shadow. After that, I simply
changed the color.
Finally, I selected all the curves
making up the left side of the hair and
just apply the same material to
[Music]
them. With that done, as you can see,
the hair looks a lot better. But,
however, this did provide a small
problem for the animation, and you can
probably already notice it over here.
When the character is moving, the shadow
doesn't change. So it can look unnatural
from different angles, especially if you
have a lot of movement. So to fix this,
I came up with the idea of a color
transition. This basically means adding
two color ramps and a mix shader to
combine them, which will enable us to
switch between colors using its factor.
So to make this work, you can go to the
material properties, and from here,
you'll be able to change the factor of
the mix shader. Then go to the frame
right before the shadow is naturally
supposed to change. And with your cursor
over the factor, press I to add a key
frame. Move to the next frame, set the
factor to zero and add another key
frame. Now back to where we were in the
left corner, you can switch from object
to world. And here you'll be able to see
the shader for the world color. As you
can see, if you change the color
straight away, it will affect the
shading on your mesh. I probably say
this for every video, but for those of
you who don't know how to fix this, you
can just add light
path. Duplicate the background
node and add a mix shader to connect all
the
nodes. And now with the second
background node, you can control the
world color without any changes on your
shading. Also, another thing that's
really important for 2D style renders is
the shadows. And as you can see here,
the shadows appear pretty soft, which is
not really what we want. So, to make
them look sharp instead, you can select
the light and go into the light
settings. From here, all you have to do
is set the radius, filter, and
resolution limit to zero. And now, our
shadows look really sharp and nice.
Moving on, we can now add the line art.
So, for this character in particular, I
used two different types of line art. a
silhouette for the hair only and contour
for everything else. This will be really
important later on, but first let's add
the line art itself. So, since this
method uses grease pencil, I'm going to
adjust the camera position a bit. As the
lines are created based on your camera
angle, then press shift A to search. Go
to grease pencil and add the collection
line art. You can organize your objects
by moving them into different
collections using M. Go to the modifiers
tab and from here you can select any
collection you want.
But as you can see, even though the
lines look good on the mask, the
modifier is also affecting objects
outside of the collection. So if this
also happens to you, something that I
found out to work pretty well is
enabling the intersection with contour
option under chaining. Then go to
intersections and tick the first box to
add a collection mask. This might not
work properly for every scene, but you
can still try it out if you have the
same issue.
[Music]
You can then press shift D to duplicate
your line art and apply it to the other
collections as well. If somehow you
encounter unwanted lines, you might want
to shade your object smooth or apply
subdivision modifier to them like I did
here. Also, if you want to add more
lines yourself, you can go into edit
mode, select an edge like this, then go
up here and click on mark sharp. This
will add a line exactly where you want
it to be. Finally, we can now add the
line art for the hair. And like I said
earlier, we're going to switch it from
contour to silhouette, which however
only looks right if the object is shaded
smooth. So, make sure to do that. This
way, there will only be lines around the
shape of the hair. So, you can also
disable intersections as we'll no longer
need them. And that brings us to the end
of this video. If you have any
questions, feel free to ask me in the
comments. And thank you so much for
watching.